# PODNAME: Devel::StatProfiler::ReportStructure - developer documentation for aggregation classes

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Developer documentation for aggregation classes>.

=head1 ON-DISK LAYOUT

Multiple aggregated reports for a single code release are stored under
a single directory. Unless specified, all files are Sereal blobs.

The HTML report generator assumes to be able to fetch the source code
for files. There is support for reading files directly from disk or
for fetching them from a local git clone (it uses C<git cat-file>, so
it can be a bare clone). The file contents need to match the source
code that was running while collecting profiling data.

The aggregate structure for a single code release report is:

    <release id>/
        # eval source code
        __source__/
        # common state
        __state__/
            generalogy.<shard id>
            last_sample.<shard id>
            metadata.<shard id>
            shard.<shard id>
            sourcemap.<shard id>
            source.<shard id>
            processed.<process id>.<shard id>
        # first aggregation id
        aggregate1/
            metadata.<shard id>
            report.<timebox1>.<shard id>
            report.<timebox2>.<shard id>
        # second aggregation id
        aggregate2/
        ...

=over 4

=item C<< release id >>

an arbitrary user-provided identifier, for example a Git commit/tag.

=item C<< shard id >>

an arbitrary identifier, for example an host name. Files should be
written from a single aggregation host, and will be merged together to
generate the HTML report.

=item C<< timebox >>

a number of seconds since the epoch, old timeboxed data can be deleted
at user's discretion.

=back

=head2 Aggregate directory

Many of the files below contain refernces to source file/line numbers.

All line numbers are logical line numbers (the ones reported by
C<warn()>/C<die()>); those generally match physical line numbers,
except in the presence of C<#line> directives.

Source files of the form C<eval:HASH> refer to the eval source code
having MD5 hash C<HASH>. There should never be eval references of the
form C<(eval 123)>.

All other source file references are logical source files (the ones
reported by C<warn()>/C<die()>); those generally match physical line
numbers, except in the presence of C<#line> directives.

Generated reports contain an entry for each physical file, so there is
code in the report generator to piece together multiple logical
reports into a merged report for a single physical file.

=head2 Report file(s)

The aggregated profiling data, composed mainly of a map from logical
file names to the per-line count of exclusive/inclusive samples and a
map from subroutines to call sites and callees.

This is the main data used to generate the HTML report.

=head3 Metadata file(s)

Currently only contains the number of samples aggregated into the
corresponding report file.

=head2 State directory

=head3 Shard file(s)

Empty flag files, a quick way of enumerating the shards ids.

=head3 Metadata file(s)

User-provided metadata keys, added to the reports using
C<set_global_metadata> and C<write_custom_metadata>.

=head3 Processed file(s)

State of C<Devel::StatProfiler::SectionChangeReader>, saved when the
profile data has been split to multiple files and not all files have
been processed yet.

=head3 Last sample file(s)

Tracks the time at which the last file for a given process id was
processed. Used to clean up the processing state for
C<Devel::StatProfiler::SectionChangeReader>.

=head3 Genealogy file(s)

Tracks the parent-child relationship between process ids, used to map
the eval id (e.g. C<(eval 123)>) to the corresponding source code.

=head3 Source map file(s)

Information about C<#line> directives contained in eval source code,
used to map a lines as reported in the profile to source code lines
used during rendering.

For non-eval source code, the corresponding information is parsed from
the source code files on disk.

=head3 Source file(s)

Maps process ids into a list of evals that were seen by that process,
and each eval and the hash of the source code. The source code hash
can be used to to fetch the actual eval source code, and more
importantly to merge profiling data from multiple independent evals.

=head2 Source directory

Contains a file for each C<eval STRING>; the file is named after the
MD5 hash of the source code and stored in a 2-level deep directory
structure. Files are just source code (not Sereal blobs).

=cut
